LinkedQTL
=========

Simulation of two linked QTL in a single chromosome with varying number of markers, QTL location and effect sizes.

src/cf2_make_q1_world.R
	This script generates `reps` number of single chromosome (Congenic) F2 crosses, each with two linked-QTL 15 cM 
	appart. The F2 crosses vary in marker density (96, 384, 1152, and 1536).  Linked-QTL may have either equal QTL
	effects or unequal QTL effects.  Requires a table of linked QTL effects, C-map.RData, and a seed1.RData. File
	CF2-QTL_effects.csv consists of six columns labeled chr, a1, d1, a2, d2, and dist corresponding to the chromosome,
	additive and dominance effects for the first (a1, d1), and second (a2, d2) QTL, and the distance between them. 
	File C-map.RData is an RData file containing four `map` objects generated from sim.map.  File seed1.RData is
	a file containing a random seed to seed all simuations.  The script outputs a csv file containing 9 colums.
	an index (1:reps), loc1, loc2, chr, a1, d1, a2, d2, and dist corresponding to the replicate number (id), location
	of the first QTL, location of the second QTL, additive and dominance for both QTLs, and the distance between both 
	of them.  For purposes of this simulation Q1 is the equal QTL effects model and Q2 is the unequal QTL effects 
	model.
	
src/cf2_analyze_q1_world.R
	This script analyzes all the cross files generated by the `cf2_make_q1_world.R` script.  Each cross is analyzed
	with Interval Mapping using Haley-Knott regression, Composite Interval Mapping, and stepwise regression/Multiple
	QTL model selection, and generates a summary table for each cross.  In addition, an RData file is created from a
	random sample of crosses for further analysis.  Parallelization is done with the package 'snow'

PA_Analysis.R
	Code to perform the power and accuracy analysis for all crosses.  In addition it generates lattice plots for
	visualization of the data.


